Welcome back to Movie Recaps.
Today I’m gonna explain a mystery,
horror, thriller film from 2016, titled The
Boy. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A car drives through a road in the British
countryside. On its back seat, there's an
American woman sleeping, Greta Evans. She's woken
up by the driver when they finally make it to the
house she'll be working at. The driver informs
her the house owners had to step out for a second
and that she should wait for them in the parlor.
Greta enters the house and takes off her shoes,
leaving them next to her things by the
entrance. When she hears a noise from upstairs,
she decides to go there. She finds a painting on
the way: a picture of a couple with their son,
presumably the family she'll work for. She goes
farther inside and finds a child's room, which
she enters and grabs a toy for a closer look. The
toy is dropped to the ground when she's startled
by a man, Malcolm, saying hi from behind. He's the
grocery boy. After he introduces himself, he asks
her to join him in the kitchen so he can show her
around, which she accepts. Once there, they start
putting the groceries away while chatting.
Malcolm guesses she's American and the she
is running away from someone. Eager to change the
subject, Greta asks him what the family is like.
Malcolm tells her they're very nice and generous.
When she asks about the son, however, he hesitates
and says he doesn't know how to explain.
They're suddenly interrupted by a woman,
Mrs. Heelshire, entering the room and asking why
Greta isn't wearing any shoes. They go back to
the house entrance to retrieve them, but the shoes
aren't there where she left them. Mrs. Heelshire
tells her they'll show up, it was just her son
playing around. Greta outs on different shoes.
In another room, Mr. Heelshire is talking
to his son, Brahms, whose face is hidden
by the chair. The two women arrive then, and Mrs.
Heelshire introduces Greta to her husband and son,
but when they step aside, the figure sitting on
the chair turns out to be a doll. Greta laughs,
thinking they're pranking her, but their
serious faces tell her that's not the case.
They're interrupted by Malcolm, who enters the
room and interacts with the doll as if it was
a real person. Malcolm leaves then and Greta,
encouraged by his reaction, approaches the doll,
shakes his hand and tells him she hopes they
can be friends. Mrs. Heelshire asks the dad
to bring Greta's things up to her room while
she shows the new nanny all she needs to know.
While making their way upstairs, Mrs. Heelshire
tells Greta they've tried other nannies
and Brahms rejected them all, although they
hadn't been as young and pretty as Greta.
Once they reach Brahms' room, Mrs. Heelshire
guides Greta through the daily routine.
Brahms must be woken up every morning at 7 am and
changed into clean clothes, which Mrs. Heelshire
asks Greta to demonstrate. She disapproves of the
way Greta does it, so she ends up stepping in and
doing it herself. They go to the studio next.
Brahms has three hours of lessons five days a
week and likes to start with poetry. Next is music
appreciation, which is very important to Brahm
and it must be played rather loudly. A couple of
hours later, they're all having dinner together,
doll included. When they're done, Greta
takes the leftovers to the kitchen,
but Mrs. Heelshire tells her they don't throw
away food because they're in the countryside.
They must save it in the freezer for
emergencies. Mr. Heelshire walks in then,
hands Brahms to his wife and takes
Greta with him to check on the traps.
Greta follows him outside and finds him getting
caught rats from the traps in the garden.
While doing all the checking, Mr. Heelshire
tells her more about the house, like the fact
all windows have been shut permanently. Mr.
Heelshire says he isn't sure how they reached
this point but he tells Greta that no matter how
it looks from the outside, their son is there with
them. Greta tells him she understands.
In the evening, the parents put Brahms
to bed and they pray all together while Greta
listens - they include her name in the prayer.
Mrs. Heelshire asks Greta for a
moment of privacy with her family.
Greta waits outside while they chat, but the
couple is quick to come out a moment later to tell
Greta Brahms wants her as his nanny if she'll have
him. Greta agrees and Mrs. Heelshire hugs her.
Greta goes to her room to call her
sister Sandy on the landline phone.
She tells her how weird everything is, including
the lack of wi-fi and phone signal. Sandy tells
her she needed to get away and this job fits her
situation perfectly then confesses that Greta's
ex, Cole, has been calling her house nonstop,
even appeared by the house and scared her kid.
But she hasn't told him anything about Greta's
current location and promises she never will,
not wanting to see her sister hurt again.
The next morning, Greta leaves her room when
she hears some noises and finds Mrs. Heelshire
scolding Brahms for throwing his toys on the
floor. Mr. Heelshire startles Greta out of
her watching, apologizing for the sudden rush.
He tells her it's been such a long time since
they went on a holiday, they're anxious to go.
He also gives Greta a sheet of paper
with the rules she must follow every day.
We follow Mr. Heelshire and Greta walk towards
the house entrance. As Mrs. Heelshire joins them
with Brahms in her arms, the husband tells Greta
to be good to his boy because then he'll be good
for her in return. If she's bad to him though,
well - he doesn't get to finish that sentence,
because his wife interrupts him. Greta promises
she'll treat the boy as if he was his own,
and after being handed the doll, Mrs.
Heelshire hugs her and apologizes in her ear.
Greta takes Brahms outside and together
they watch the couple leave in the car.
Once back inside, Greta doesn't follow the rules.
She leaves Brahms on a random chair and covers him
with a blanket because he creeps her out before
heading to the kitchen to make a PB and jelly
sandwich that she takes with her to a reading
chair, where she drinks some wine and eats while
reading a magazine. Eventually she falls asleep.
It's nighttime when she wakes up. She grabs
the tray and intends to take it to the kitchen,
but stops midway when she notices the blanket has
fallen off Brahms. Creeped out by this, she grabs
him and takes him to his room, carelessly throwing
him on a rocking chair before going to bed.
Greta is woken up by the sound of a kid's
laughter echoing in the house. She leaves
the room to investigate, and when she reaches the
painting of the family, she comes closer to look
at the kid and is suddenly grabbed by the neck
by a hand coming out of it - that's the exact
moment she wakes up in bed, perfectly fine. Upset
by this dream, she dresses up and goes to Brahms'
room to check on him - he's on the chair where she
left him, and there's water falling from his eye.
Greta comes closer, nervous at the idea it
may be tears, but she quickly discovers it's
just water from a ceiling leak. To protect the
doll, she moves him to the bed before leaving.
In another part of the house, she finds a door
to an attic and tries to open it using a fire
poker to no avail. Later that day, we see Greta
trying to keep herself busy. She tries to call her
sister but she gets the answering machine. The
phone rings as soon as she hangs up, and Greta
quickly picks it up, but only hears static noise.
The next day, Greta's at the gates picking up the
mail when Malcolm arrives in his car with the
groceries. They go to the kitchen, where Malcolm
shows her they must throw all the leftover food in
a trash bag he'll take with him. Greta complains
about Malcolm not warning her about Brahms, and
he says he didn't want to ruin the surprise.
Greta asks him about the story behind the doll.
Malcolm takes her to a grave near the house.
Turns out Brahms didn't survive a house fire
on his eighth birthday, the doll showed up the
day after. Malcolm says he knows it all
seems very strange, but it's harmless.
Greta makes the math and realizes the couple
has been living like this for twenty years.
Malcolm tells her they had been looking for a
nanny for one year before Greta came along and
if she's feeling restless, he can take her out
and show her the nightlife in town, promising he
won't tell anyone. Greta accepts after making
sure Malcolm understands it's not a date,
because she recently got out of a relationship.
In Brahms' room, we learn all the conversations
in the house reach Brahms through the walls.
Greta is in her own room on the phone with Sandy,
telling her about her plans for the night,
but isn't able to convince her sister that
this isn't a date. Sandy approves, Greta needs to
get out more. When glancing at the mirror, Greta
notices Brahms looking at her from the other room.
Feeling creeped out again, she closes the door.
Moments later, she goes to the bathroom to take
a shower, unaware of another presence in the room
that takes her dress and necklace. When she
comes out and looks at herself in the mirror,
she notices she's missing a chunk of hair, and
right after she notices the missing objects too.
Upon returning to her bedroom, she finds all
drawers open and all her clothes missing as well.
Scared, she leaves the bedroom, only to find the
door to the attic open and the stairs ready to
climb inside. Starting to think it may be an
intruder, she grabs the fire poker and enters
the attic. As soon as she's inside, the door
closes behind her, and she can't open it again.
When she hears a car, she goes to the
window to see Malcolm knocking on the door.
She tries to make noise to call his
attention, but he can't hear her.
Next she tries breaking the window with the poker,
but she only manages to break the poker itself,
and Malcolm leaves. While trying
to find a way around the place,
a human shadow startles her and she falls to
the floor, the hit to the head knocking her out.
She wakes up the next morning still in the
attic. She learns he shadow she saw last
night was just some clothes on a hanger and
finds a photo album from Brahms' childhood.
Among all the pictures, there's one of the
painting and the photo that it was based on,
although on the original, Brahms' look much more
serious. Greta's startled out of her thoughts
by the attic door suddenly opening on its own.
Greta leaves and goes to her room, only to find
her clothes back hanging all over the furniture.
Malcolm comes by a few hours later to help her
check the house for intruders, but he doesn't
find any signs of breaking in. Greta points out
that doesn't explain her clothes. To help her
feel at peace, Malcolm decides to stick around.
While playing some pool, Greta asks Malcolm
to tell him more about the real Brahms.
He says he knows nothing else, but he's clearly
lying, so Greta insists. Malcolm tells her there
are two kinds of stories around town and the
truth is somewhere in between. The polite talk
says Brahms was a good kid, the pub talk says he
was very strange. When Greta asks for the truth,
Malcolm tells him about the day he came to
the house with a delivery for what would've
been Brahms' birthday. Mrs. Heelshire was opening
presents with the doll while Mr. Heelshire was in
the pool room, drinking and mumbling he couldn't
do it anymore. He invited Malcolm to drink with
him and Malcolm asked him about the real Brahms
too. The father replied, with a heartbroken look,
that the kid was odd. After checking Greta
truly is ok on her own, Malcolm leaves.
Greta moves to her room to talk to her sister
on the phone. Sandy informs Greta that Cole has
been by her house again. Sandy's kid, trying
to get rid of him, gave Cole Greta's address.
Sandy apologizes but Greta doesn't blame her for
it. After hanging up, Greta goes to the bathroom
to brush her teeth and notices a moving shadow
in the mirror. She goes to Brahms' bedroom, where
she finds a bunch of paper sheets on the floor.
She fixes the position of the doll's face but
it moves on its own to look at her, and at that
moment, once again, Greta wakes up in her bed.
She hears some noises outside so she goes to
her door and opens it, only to find her lost
shoes waiting for her. Getting scared, she goes
to Brahms' room to find him in a new position:
sitting on the edge of the bed, the list of rules
next to him. Greta runs back to her room and locks
the door, then tries to make a call but the phone
isn't working. She hangs up, and the phone rings
right afterward. When she picks it up, a child's
voice says her name and asks her to come out,
it also wonders why she isn't following the rules.
Greta drops the phone, but then there's knocking
on the door and something is left in front
of it - "her favorite" the voice says. Greta
opens the door to find a tray with a PB and jelly
sandwich, and Brahms still sitting on his bed with
the rules. Greta approaches the doll and finally
understands Brahms only wants her to follow the
rules. Malcolm calls and tries to invite her out,
but Greta hangs up, all her attention on the doll.
Somewhere else far away, the Heelshires
are writing a goodbye letter to Brahm
before filling their pockets with
rocks and walking into the ocean.
Next day, Greta starts following the rules
to a tee, except for the good night kiss.
Many days later, Malcolm visits her
since she wouldn't pick up the phone,
he also brings in the mail, which she
ignores. After she promises she's doing fine,
he tries to ask her out again, she turns him
down so he leaves. Alone with the doll, Greta
tries to make him grab a fruit, asking for a sign
of a presence of a spirit in the house. At first
there's no answer, but when Greta leaves the room,
she hears a noise: Brahms has moved on his own.
Hours later, Malcolm returns to the house because
Greta called him: she needs someone else to see
it. After lots of testing, she's discovered Brahms
only moves if nobody can see him. To prove it,
she draws on the floor around him with chalk, then
leaves the room with Malcolm. When they check on
him after some minutes, nothing has happened.
But Greta wants to try again, so she asks Brahms
really nicely to help her. This time around, when
they leave and return, the doll isn't standing on
the chalk spot anymore. Malcolm finally believes
her. They chat about it afterward. Greta tells him
she thinks this is happening for a reason: her
ex was abusive and made her lose her pregnancy.
Malcolm now understands why this is
so important to her and they kiss.
Later at night, after putting Brahms to bed, Greta
returns to her room where she and Malcolm start
making out. Someone is watching them through
the keyhole, and the sudden noise of music
interrupts them. They come downstairs to find the
record player playing and Brahms sitting nearby.
Greta takes the doll back to bed before going
to the kitchen to make some coffee while Malcolm
tells her it would be wise for her to spend the
night in town. She refuses, so Malcolm tells
her another story: years ago a little girl called
Emily Cribs used to come over to play with Brahms.
Her body was found not far from the
house the same day it caught on fire,
and they never found the killer.
Greta still refuses to leave.
She checks on Brahms in his room and for
the first time, she gives him the good
night kiss before leaving for the attic.
There she looks at the photo album again,
finding pictures of Emily and noticing her
annoyed face as Brahms stared at her creepily.
The next day, after returning to the house from
cleaning traps, she hears the sound of the pool
table. She goes there with Brahms and finds out
Cole has broken in. They have dinner together and
Cole tries to convince her he's changed so she
would return to him. Malcolm shows up then and
after awkward introductions, he uses the groceries
as an excuse to talk to Greta in private.
He tells her he's worried Cole will
hurt her, but Greta says she has a plan.
Malcolm leaves the house but not the area,
deciding to stay in the car just in case.
Inside, Greta brings Cole sheets and pillows
for him to sleep on the couch. Cole tries to
convince her to leave together again and goes
for a kiss she dodges before leaving. She takes
Brahms to his room and tells him she needs help.
Later that night, we see blood drops falling on
Cole's face, and he wakes up to find rat bodies
in his bag, a message in red on the wall that says
"get out" and the doll sitting nearby. Greta
runs to him when she hears him yell her name,
and when she gets there, he accuses her to be
the one behind all this. Greta grabs Brahms
and an angry Cole starts chasing her around,
Malcolm hears the screaming and gets inside to
find Cole taking the doll from Greta. He starts
shaking the doll around as he yells, and tired
of hearing Greta and Malcolm asking to be careful
with Brahms, he smashes the doll against a chair.
Something starts making noise in the walls and
Cole approaches the mirror to try to follow it
better. The mirror suddenly shutters, throwing
Cole back and revealing who was making the noises:
a grown man wearing a porcelain mask. The real
Brahms, calling for Greta with the same kiddy
voice she heard on the phone before. Brahms jumps
on Cole and after some struggling, he manages to
kill him. He grabs Greta next, but Malcolm appears
from behind and hits him before taking Greta away.
Brahms starts chasing them through
the house. Greta and Malcolm try to
lock themselves in her room, but Brahms
knows the secret passages in the walls,
so he has no trouble reaching them anywhere.
After running around for a while, they finally
get a chance to escape when they find the door to
one of Brahms' wall passages, which they enter.
Greta and Malcolm find a hidden room: the place
where Brahms has been living all this time.
He has everything he needs and more: Greta
finds her dress and hair on a doll Brahms made
to imitate her, she also finds the letter from
his parents saying they aren't returning and he
could "have the girl". They go back to the hidden
passages and Malcolm finally catches up with them.
After some more chasing, he jumps on
Malcolm and knocks him out as Greta
finds an exit and runs away from the house.
She makes it to the gates and stops there,
realizing she can't leave yet: she must go back
for Malcolm. Back in the house, she grabs a
screwdriver that she hides in her pocket before
meeting with Brahms. She tells him she's come
back for him, then uses her authoritative nanny
voice to order him to go back to bed. After some
hesitation, he obeys. Greta takes him to his room
and puts him to bed, and when she tries to leave,
Brahms asks for the good night kiss. She refuses,
saying that's his punishment for misbehaving.
But Brahms grabs her arm and insists, so Greta
has no other choice but to lean in for a kiss.
When Brahms puts his porcelain mouth against her
real lips, she takes the chance to retrieve the
screwdriver and use it on him. Brahms pushes
her away and after getting off the bed,
grabs her by the neck and pushes her against the
wall, intending to leave her without air. For
a moment Greta seems to be out of it, but at the
last second, she snaps and pushes the screwdriver
deeper until he collapses. The mask breaks and
we see Brahms' face is burnt under it. Greta
hurries out of the room to find Malcolm and get
him in the car so they can escape the house. She
smiles when she realizes they're finally free.
The movie ends with a pair of hands wearing
sleeves very similar to Brahms'
gluing the doll back together.